README.md, before:

# Inkblot

Inkblot is a gem for interacting with Waveshare's line of E-paper displays on the Raspberry Pi using ruby. It includes components for outputting images, text, and menus to the EPD as well as reading input from HAT buttons on the side.

## Installation

Add this line to your application's Gemfile:

```ruby
gem 'inkblot', github: 'jtp184/inkblot'
```

## Usage

### Getting Started

### The Display class

The `Display` class handles outputting to the screen. It accepts an argument to its `.show` method to output to the screen, which can be any number of displayable objects.

```ruby
items = []

# Primarily used to display Components and Converters
items << Inkblot::Components::SimpleText.new(text: 'Hello')
items << Inkblot::ImageConverter.new(path: '/home/pi/img.png')
# Can also display (already correct bmp) files directly or by path
items << File.new('/home/pi/bump.bmp') # Or a TempFile
items << '/home/pi/bump.bmp'

# call, show, and [] all work
Inkblot::Display.call(items[0])
Inkblot::Display.show(items[1])
Inkblot::Display[items[2]]
Inkblot::Display.(items[3])

# Plaintext also works
Inkblot::Display.("Show Me")
```
### Buttons

The `Buttons` class deals with input from the HAT buttons. The buttons communicate over the Pi's GPIO pins, and can be used for a broad variety of inputs.

```ruby
# Setting up the buttons for use. This only needs to be run once at the start
Inkblot::Buttons.init
# You can check whether the buttons have been initialized with
Inkblot::Buttons.ready? # => true

# Basic input from buttons. With no argument, blocks until you press a button then returns an index
Inkblot::Buttons.get_input # => 0

# With an argument, it will timeout if no button is pressed.
Inkblot::Buttons.get_input(10) # => nil if no button is pressed for 10 seconds

# It's also possible to get chords instead of single presses.
# Specify the chord length and wait for simultaneous presses.

Inkblot::Buttons.get_multi_input(2) # => [1, 2]
Inkblot::Buttons.get_multi_input(3, 10) # => nil || [0, 1, 3]

# You can also record all button activity within a timeframe

Inkblot::Buttons.get_raw_input(3) # => [[], [0], [0, 1]...]
```

Usually, you'll use the buttons with a display component. Components may have their own defined button actions, and the Buttons class can access them.

```ruby
c = Inkblot::Components::ScrollMenu.new do |sc|
  sc.div_height = sc.div_width = :full
  sc.items = (1..10).to_a.map { |x| "Option #{x}" }
end

Inkblot::Display.show(c)

# Calling .get_press gets the input, then calls the associated proc on the
# currently displayed object, defined under .button_actions
Buttons.get_press

Inkblot::Display.again
```

### Components

Components are composable views. They're written as ultra-basic ERB/HTML templates, with scaling applied to look good at the resolution of the EPD. These are then passed into [wkhtmltopdf](https://wkhtmltopdf.org/) and another pass through ImageMagick to convert them into 1-deep `.bmp` files. No writing or comprehension of HTML is necessary though, as you merely pass in options to the constructor.

You can provide options to the constructor with standard or block syntax.

```ruby
Inkblot::Components::SimpleText.new(text: "Works this way")

Inkblot::Components::SimpleText.new do |st|
  st.text = "Or this way"
end
```

Passed in options can be retrieved through the options method, or defined accessors

```ruby
c = Inkblot::Components::SimpleText.new(text: "Text")

c.options[:text] # => "Text"
```

You can also compose components by passing them to `Component.create` method, which will combine the fragments together into a single page, top to bottom.

```ruby
Inkblot::Components::Component.create do |cpt|
  cpt << Inkblot::Components::SimpleText.new(text: "Several")
  cpt << Inkblot::Components::SimpleText.new(text: "Different")
  cpt << Inkblot::Components::SimpleText.new(text: "Components")
end
```

```html
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html>
  <head>

  </head>
  <body style="height: 176px; width: 264px;">
    <div style="border: 0px solid black; box-sizing: border-box; height: 100%; width: 100%; display: flex; flex-flow: column; align-items: center; justify-content: center; text-align: center">
      <h1 style="font-family: monospace; ">Several</h1>
    </div>

    <div style="border: 0px solid black; box-sizing: border-box; height: 100%; width: 100%; display: flex; flex-flow: column; align-items: center; justify-content: center; text-align: center">
      <h1 style="font-family: monospace; ">Different</h1>
    </div>

    <div style="border: 0px solid black; box-sizing: border-box; height: 100%; width: 100%; display: flex; flex-flow: column; align-items: center; justify-content: center; text-align: center">
      <h1 style="font-family: monospace; ">Components</h1>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
```

### Built-in Components

#### Base Component
#### SimpleText

The `SimpleText` class allows you to do just that, simple text. Sizing can be set explicitly or automatically, as can fonts.

```ruby
Inkblot::Components::SimpleText do |st|
  st.text = "Example Text"
  st.border_size = 10 # Adds an inner border
  st.size = :large # :tiny, :small, :medium, :large or an integer for px
  # Takes in an array of font names and includes them
  st.gfonts = ['Roboto', 'Open Sans', 'Jost', 'Pangolin']
  # Also works with built in fonts like Helvetica
  st.font = "Pangolin"
end
```

#### FullScreenImage

The `FullScreenImage` class displays images. You can pass a variety of image sources in, and it works with other components for nesting and resizing. Images are automatically resized and downsampled.

```ruby
# Sets the img tag src to the url
Inkblot::Components::FullScreenImage.new do |fsi| 
  fsi.url = "https://live.staticflickr.com/2753/4177140189_f5fd431b26_o_d.jpg"
end

# Sets the img tag src to the absolute version of the path
Inkblot::Components::FullScreenImage.new(path: "/home/pi/img.jpg")

# Sets the img tag src as a data url from reading the file
Inkblot::Components::FullScreenImage.new(file: File.new("/home/pi/img.jpg"))

# Sets the img tag src as a data url from the file contents themselves
Inkblot::Components::FullScreenImage.new(binary: File.read("/home/pi/img.jpg"))
```
#### QrCode
#### TableList
#### IconPane
#### ScrollMenu

### Creating new Components

#### Templates
#### Helpers

## Contributing

Bug reports, feature ideas, and pull requests are welcome on GitHub at https://github.com/jtp184/inkblot

Commit message:

Added description of the QR code class

README.md, after:

# Inkblot

Inkblot is a gem for interacting with Waveshare's line of E-paper displays on the Raspberry Pi using ruby. It includes components for outputting images, text, and menus to the EPD as well as reading input from HAT buttons on the side.

## Installation

Add this line to your application's Gemfile:

```ruby
gem 'inkblot', github: 'jtp184/inkblot'
```

## Usage

### Getting Started

### The Display class

The `Display` class handles outputting to the screen. It accepts an argument to its `.show` method to output to the screen, which can be any number of displayable objects.

```ruby
items = []

# Primarily used to display Components and Converters
items << Inkblot::Components::SimpleText.new(text: 'Hello')
items << Inkblot::ImageConverter.new(path: '/home/pi/img.png')
# Can also display (already correct bmp) files directly or by path
items << File.new('/home/pi/bump.bmp') # Or a TempFile
items << '/home/pi/bump.bmp'

# call, show, and [] all work
Inkblot::Display.call(items[0])
Inkblot::Display.show(items[1])
Inkblot::Display[items[2]]
Inkblot::Display.(items[3])

# Plaintext also works
Inkblot::Display.("Show Me")
```
### Buttons

The `Buttons` class deals with input from the HAT buttons. The buttons communicate over the Pi's GPIO pins, and can be used for a broad variety of inputs.

```ruby
# Setting up the buttons for use. This only needs to be run once at the start
Inkblot::Buttons.init
# You can check whether the buttons have been initialized with
Inkblot::Buttons.ready? # => true

# Basic input from buttons. With no argument, blocks until you press a button then returns an index
Inkblot::Buttons.get_input # => 0

# With an argument, it will timeout if no button is pressed.
Inkblot::Buttons.get_input(10) # => nil if no button is pressed for 10 seconds

# It's also possible to get chords instead of single presses.
# Specify the chord length and wait for simultaneous presses.

Inkblot::Buttons.get_multi_input(2) # => [1, 2]
Inkblot::Buttons.get_multi_input(3, 10) # => nil || [0, 1, 3]

# You can also record all button activity within a timeframe

Inkblot::Buttons.get_raw_input(3) # => [[], [0], [0, 1]...]
```

Usually, you'll use the buttons with a display component. Components may have their own defined button actions, and the Buttons class can access them.

```ruby
c = Inkblot::Components::ScrollMenu.new do |sc|
  sc.div_height = sc.div_width = :full
  sc.items = (1..10).to_a.map { |x| "Option #{x}" }
end

Inkblot::Display.show(c)

# Calling .get_press gets the input, then calls the associated proc on the
# currently displayed object, defined under .button_actions
Buttons.get_press

Inkblot::Display.again
```

### Components

Components are composable views. They're written as ultra-basic ERB/HTML templates, with scaling applied to look good at the resolution of the EPD. These are then passed into [wkhtmltopdf](https://wkhtmltopdf.org/) and another pass through ImageMagick to convert them into 1-deep `.bmp` files. No writing or comprehension of HTML is necessary though, as you merely pass in options to the constructor.

You can provide options to the constructor with standard or block syntax.

```ruby
Inkblot::Components::SimpleText.new(text: "Works this way")

Inkblot::Components::SimpleText.new do |st|
  st.text = "Or this way"
end
```

Passed in options can be retrieved through the options method, or defined accessors

```ruby
c = Inkblot::Components::SimpleText.new(text: "Text")

c.options[:text] # => "Text"
```

You can also compose components by passing them to `Component.create` method, which will combine the fragments together into a single page, top to bottom.

```ruby
Inkblot::Components::Component.create do |cpt|
  cpt << Inkblot::Components::SimpleText.new(text: "Several")
  cpt << Inkblot::Components::SimpleText.new(text: "Different")
  cpt << Inkblot::Components::SimpleText.new(text: "Components")
end
```

```html
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html>
  <head>

  </head>
  <body style="height: 176px; width: 264px;">
    <div style="border: 0px solid black; box-sizing: border-box; height: 100%; width: 100%; display: flex; flex-flow: column; align-items: center; justify-content: center; text-align: center">
      <h1 style="font-family: monospace; ">Several</h1>
    </div>

    <div style="border: 0px solid black; box-sizing: border-box; height: 100%; width: 100%; display: flex; flex-flow: column; align-items: center; justify-content: center; text-align: center">
      <h1 style="font-family: monospace; ">Different</h1>
    </div>

    <div style="border: 0px solid black; box-sizing: border-box; height: 100%; width: 100%; display: flex; flex-flow: column; align-items: center; justify-content: center; text-align: center">
      <h1 style="font-family: monospace; ">Components</h1>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
```

### Built-in Components

#### Base Component
#### SimpleText

The `SimpleText` class allows you to do just that, simple text. Sizing can be set explicitly or automatically, as can fonts.

```ruby
Inkblot::Components::SimpleText do |st|
  st.text = "Example Text"
  st.border_size = 10 # Adds an inner border
  st.size = :large # :tiny, :small, :medium, :large or an integer for px
  # Takes in an array of font names and includes them
  st.gfonts = ['Roboto', 'Open Sans', 'Jost', 'Pangolin']
  # Also works with built in fonts like Helvetica
  st.font = "Pangolin"
end
```

#### FullScreenImage

The `FullScreenImage` class displays images. You can pass a variety of image sources in, and it works with other components for nesting and resizing. Images are automatically resized and downsampled.

```ruby
# Sets the img tag src to the url
Inkblot::Components::FullScreenImage.new do |fsi| 
  fsi.url = "https://live.staticflickr.com/2753/4177140189_f5fd431b26_o_d.jpg"
end

# Sets the img tag src to the absolute version of the path
Inkblot::Components::FullScreenImage.new(path: "/home/pi/img.jpg")

# Sets the img tag src as a data url from reading the file
Inkblot::Components::FullScreenImage.new(file: File.new("/home/pi/img.jpg"))

# Sets the img tag src as a data url from the file contents themselves
Inkblot::Components::FullScreenImage.new(binary: File.read("/home/pi/img.jpg"))
```
#### QrCode

The `QrCode` class can generate and render QR Codes to the screen, great for small area and two-channel color.

```ruby
Inkblot::Components::QrCode.new do |qr| 
  qr.message = "http://justinp.io/"
  qr.margin_top = qr.margin_left = -5 # adds a -5% margin
end
```

#### TableList
#### IconPane
#### ScrollMenu

### Creating new Components

#### Templates
#### Helpers

## Contributing

Bug reports, feature ideas, and pull requests are welcome on GitHub at https://github.com/jtp184/inkblot
